Dear **Prof. Soumyarup**,   
I'm Hasanth, I graduated from IIT-Kharagpur with a Bachelors in Instrumentation Engg. (Dept. of Electrical Engg.) in 2016 and worked as a Software Engineer - II for one year at Hewlett Packard Enterprise - R&D between 2016-17 (resigned). In **June 2019**, I was supposed to join University at Buffalo / University of Texas at Dallas (with scholarship) for my Masters in CS, but due to some personal reasons I've dropped my plan and been preparing and appeared for UPSC-Civil Services Exam (CSE), with **Maths** as my optional subject ([Syllabus](https://byjus.com/free-ias-prep/ias-mathematics-syllabus/) includes B.Sc/M.Sc level subjects - **Real Analysis, Algebra, ODEs & PDEs, Mathematical Physics - Fluid Dynamics, Linear Programming etc.**). Last year in **Sept'22,** I gave my UPSC-Mains (Stage-II) exam after clearing Prelims but unfortunately couldn't make it to the final list.   
Prior to this, I was interested in Theoretical CS with an inclination towards Economics, especially I was looking forward to working with Siddharth Barman (Fair Division etc.) in Theoretical CS at IISC down the line in future. After my change of plan to pursue UPSC, I made a decision to delay my pursuit of PhD for 5-7 years later joining the service (which the govt. allows).   
But it was only in the last **Oct'22**, I came across similar lines of research being done by **You & Prof. Sourav Roy at ISI-Kolkata,  Prof. Debasis Mishra & Prof. Arunava Sen at ISI-Delhi etc.,** but from an Economics standpoint. In my research, **I've also found that there exists an opportunity of pursuing a part-time PhD at ISI-Kolkata/Delhi** which has got me very excited and made me  to revive my plans to pursue a PhD.

  
In this regard, while continuing my preparation for UPSC-CSE to appear in 2023 (**Prelims - May'23, Mains - Sept'23**), I've also started to pick up the basics of Economics from **Oct'22** by joining in M.A. Economics at IGNOU (as I could get a M.A. degree remotely) and gave my 1st year exams in **Dec'22-Jan'22**. But UPSC-CSE exam being extremely demanding in memory and time, I'm unable to complete the foundations required well within the time to appear for ISI-JRF(QE) exam held in **May'23**, especially reading Macro, Econometrics etc., appears more than my interests in this constrained time. UPSC-Prelims being held in the same month as ISI-JRF, especially when **I'm aiming to secure a top rank in final without a compromise**. I have decided to go back on ISI-JRF in search for alternatives which would allow me to take an admission in a part-time PhD program starting from **Sept'23**, as soon as I finish with my UPSC-CSE(Mains) Exam. By doing this, I will also get more than enough time to also concretely build my foundations in Economic Theory. **Above all, it would also provide me enough time to read some papers and also pick up the trending research directions in the subjects - Mechanism Design, Game Theory, Choice & Decision Theory etc.**.  
  
**How will a part-time PhD benefit me, as I will be joining Civil Services ?**  
I will be choosing **Indian Foreign Service** as my first cadre preference, in which, dealing in strategic environments will be core aspect of the job. Even though the work may not be directly related to the research work I plan to do with you (**Mechanism Design, Game Theory,  Choice, Decision Theory etc. primarily**, if possible some other areas in Maths & TCS as well), it would provide enough on ground insights for to aligned with research problems related to the above mentioned areas. Also, a PhD work in topics of such strategic environments would make me a front runner in leading either the Economics/Political Wings within the Indian Foreign Service. **By pursuing part-time while being in the service, I believe, I will not have to worry about career & family etc. much, and can pursue research whole-heartedly with dedication.** 

**As I will be joining the service (IFS) in Aug'24, I would only be seeking any kind of fellowship for the period Sept'23 to Aug'24, after that other than access to journals, travel grants and book-purchase, I won't be needing any assistance or fellowships for my part-time PhD pursuit.**
  
Finally, to conclude, I've always been a theory enthusiast starting from my Bachelors (when working for my thesis I identified [mistakes](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hmHOy27Xk3FgPk-aof9BHi59bLE3XmL4/view) in the core algorithm of an IEEE-TPAMI [Paper](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6891337) -  A* rating ML Theory Journal in 2015-16 (now NeurIPS)), till today in the intersection of Maths, Theoretical CS & Economics etc., areas, pursing a PhD was always part of my plan, it was only the matter of time (when) that has changed.   
**In this regard, I would like to know what are the steps I should be taking to join in a PhD program starting from Sept'23 to work with you, and to continue it part-time remotely from Aug'24 for the rest of the period**  

**Note:** _By part-time, I only mean as a constraint in time but not in dedication. I assure that I will be able to provide **6hrs/day** other than the weekends.  
_  
I've written a set of blog posts attaching here below, for you to get some understanding of my background and navigate between them easily (highlighting their importance):

1.  [About me](https://jeanbourgain8.github.io/posts/Blogsite/2023-03-05-05%3A39%3A27/) - crisply summarizes my previous works (important)
    
2.  [My Tryst with Theory](https://jeanbourgain8.github.io/posts/Blogsite/2023-03-08-11%3A19%3A59/) - a post similar in style to Statement of Purpose (SOP) format, elaborating my reasons stated above for doing a PhD etc.  
    
3.  [Past, Present & Future - I](https://jeanbourgain8.github.io/posts/Blogsite/2023-02-23-17%3A38%3A35/) & [Past, Present & Future - II](https://jeanbourgain8.github.io/posts/Blogsite/2023-03-01-16%3A30%3A39/) - these two are an elaboration of "About me" post, describing my works more extensively  
    
4.  [Economics Resources](https://jeanbourgain8.github.io/posts/Blogsite/2023-03-05-05%3A43%3A56/) - describes the resources I've chosen to learn from. I would be very glad, if you could verify it and suggest any necessary additions or corrections.